Appendix D - Project Specification

WESTERBY Simon Neil
CS
SKELETONISATION OF MONOCHROMATIC IMAGES
DODDS E
1995

A well known problem of pattern recognition is that of the effectiveness 
and efficiency of extracting the distinctive features of a pattern.  By 
thinning an image it becomes easier to identify these distinctive patterns.

The aim of this project is to implement and test several thinning 
algorithms, based on the widely used method suggested by Zhang and 
Suen (1984), and to find the most appropriate, with a particular interest in 
the thinning of images of cell structures.

The first stage of the project  will be to decide which of the supplied 
algorithms to implement.  The next stage will be to implement the given 
algorithms on a computer system (currently in ANSI 'C' on the University 
SUNs).  The algorithms supplied are in a very basic form, so some 
extensive work will have to be done to produce algorithms that are easier 
to translate into code.

After this the next stage will be too test the effectiveness of the 
implemented algorithms on a variety of images (including a simulated cell 
structure) of varying complexity.  The images chosen will be the same for 
each algorithm.  The hope is to implement around five  of the supplied 
algorithms, with a minimum objective of implementing at least three.

As this is an on-going area of study, with new work being done all the 
time, it is possible that newer, better algorithms will be produced, during 
the period of the project, which may be implemented instead of some of the 
supplied algorithms. 
 
Some of the supplied algorithms also suggest a distributed or parallel 
processing approach, which may be investigated  if there is any time 
available towards the end of the project.
A proposed timetable is to finish between 1 - 3 of the supplied algorithms 
before the Interim report, with any others implemented.  Simple testing 
will be performed on the algorithms shortly after each is completed, with a 
comprehensive comparison of the algorithms performed towards the end of 
the project.


