9 Support Code

9.1 Background

This chapter offers a brief discussion of the code that makes up the 
executable program modules.  These include the functions in the misc.c file 
and the functions in the relevant program module files for each algorithm.

9.2 File structure

To create an executable for each file involves the use of several source 
files.  These are (substituting xxx for the algorithm name) ;

xxx_Module.c - This is the driver program code, which links in all of the 
other source code files.

xxx.c - This file contains the actual code for each individual algorithm, as 
discussed in chapters 4 to 9.

misc.h, misc.c - These files contain the function prototypes and 
definitions for miscellaneous functions used throughout the code.

rasterfileh, rasterfile.c - These files contain the code for the 
loading and saving of Sun Rasterfiles.

9.3 Functions in 'Misc.c'

void Draw_Image (FILE *) - this function is used to draw/save the 
ASCII versions of the processed image.  The argument is a UNIX file 
descriptor, with stdio used when the image is to be sent to the screen.

void Clear_Image(void) - this function is used to set each value in the 
array image to zero.

void Image_2_Old_Image(void) - this copies the entire array image 
to the array old_image.

void Old_Image_2_Image(void) - this copies the entire array 
old_image to the array image.
void All(void) - this function is used to print the image after each 
iteration.

int IsEven(int) - This function returns whether the argument is even 
or not.

void Invert(void) - This is used to swap the values of the pixels in an 
image.  This is needed as most of the algorithms assume zero to be 
background data and one to be image data, but it is a requirement of the 
project to have one to be the background data and zero to be the image 
data. 

void Usage (char *, char *) - This function prints out usage 
information on how to use this executables, as well as an appropriate error 
message as why the program failed to work.

The source code for these functions can be found in appendix B.

